---
epidsode: 10
keywords: 'remote, remote work, tips,tea,people,managers,work,episode,remote,starting,employee,working,nice podcast,tips,blocks,record,home,hours,nap,shedule,guilty'
---

_Welcome to the learning curve podcast where Brittik and Aravind share with you everything that they've learned so far about technology, startups and remote life._

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="0:22" />

Hello, and welcome to the 10th episode of learning curve podcast. This episode is going to be about practical remote working tips. Brittik and I have spent a lot of time working remotely For me it is close to two years and for Brittik, it's more than that. So we are going to bring you practical remote working tips for you so that you can apply today. Hi, I am Aravind.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="0:47" />

Hi am Brittik and we work remotely so everything we know about remote work, all the experiences we have, you're going to distil it down and share the most important tips that will work for you Yes.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="1:02" />

So the top tip that I have in my list is that you should have a separate place to work. I know a lot of people are forced remote working these days because of the quarantine stuff. So the best tip I have for you is that you should have a separate place for work and wear different clothes.

> You should have a separate place to work.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="1:26" />

Yeah, those are like two great tips you gave away or when not just you know, separate place for for work, but also a different clothing. Because whenever we go out to work, we wear something different. We wear our workloads. It doesn't have to be that but once you change your clothes into something, you know, a little more better than your night cloth. Then you're in the zone, you know that you are going to work and your mind prepares itself in that way.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="1:58" />

I think the sound is hard, hard lots of birds chirping in the background, they also want to say hi 👋.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="2:06" />

Who would have known ki you know bird sounds would come into the mic normally in Hyderabad. It was trucks and buses and no other transport now it's nature but..

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="2:21" />

it's gonna be that sparrows are joined by crows yeah

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="2:25" />

ah nice

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="2:29" />

so yeah getting back

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="2:30" />

how do you start your day Brittik, do you make coffee or tea with me it's like I get up in the morning fresh up. Make some green tea I use the green tea packets that you got me.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="2:44" />

So how does your start look like?

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="2:48" />

Say my I have black tea in the morning. I just had 30 minutes back and it gets me into the zone. It's like I don't brew my tea. Normally Under gas, anything, what I do is I take a cup, fill it with water, put the teabag in, put it in the micro for two minutes and done. Most tea lovers will say, Oh, that's a sin. But, you know, I have my own process of making tea. So yeah, that works for me. And similarly, when I'm doing that, when I'm taking the cup out, that is the same cup, it's not different cups, so no need to make a decision about which cup to pick but just the one that I use, I put the teabag in, I make the tea and that gets me ready for I know that it's time to work now. So yeah, so I do that. Yeah. And I think most most Indians start their day with tea. One thing I think we collectively do wrong as Indians is that we have white tea, adding milk, but it's not really great when you're starting your day with tea because you get acid at Because of the milk in the tea, so yeah. Without

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="4:06" />

tea without milk is not acidic, is it?

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="4:10" />

It's not acidic. And if you go back in time, you'll know that tea was purchased by the British from China. And very interestingly, the Chinese Emperor at that time only accepted silver bricks, and nothing else. So yeah, Britain had to purchase tea giving silver and then they would smuggle out the silver from China because they didn't have any more silver. So yeah, so that they could buy more tea. But the Chinese, the producers of tea, the original tea makers, tea growers, they did not put they still don't put milk in it. It's more of a British thing. So Yeah, naturally tea, it's just leaves and you let that soak in water and hot water and have that extra man that's it, it's the most natural thing but when you add milk to it, it's not something that is good when you're starting a day.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="5:16" />

So green tea is better than milk tea at the start right in the beginning of the day.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="5:23" />

Not just green tea, even black tea or any tea doesn't have to be a certain kind of tea. It could also be tea without tea. So we have these, you know, herbal teas, which is it doesn't have any caffeine or tea leaves. So even that is okay. But just make sure that when you're starting your day before tea, have lots of water. And then yeah, have your tea. Yes. I think we could also make a podcast about we are tea lovers after all

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="5:57" />

Anything that gets you into the zone. feels like you're working because what happens generally is you commute to your work. So when you reach your office that it is an indication that you are actually going to work and you're ready. But when you're working from home, you don't really have a process. It's just moving from a room to another room. Right. So that is the reason having a process is very important.

> ... when you're working from home, you don't really have a process. It's just moving from a room to another room. So, ... having a process is very important.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="6:26" />

And it doesn't even have to be another room, by the way, it can just be a separate area in the same room. That is your bedroom. It can be that if you don't have a lot of space or privacy, so yeah, you can also do that.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="6:41" />

Good point. Please don't work from your bed. Because you don't get that feel when you start your work from the place that you sleep. separate place for work. Yeah, it's very important because even if it is just getting up and sitting in a chair, Having your laptop on your lap, or a simple table works, because because when you sleep at the same place and work at the same place, you don't really it's not really working.

> Please don't work from your bed.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="7:13" />

And I'll tell you, I have the most basic of setups at home and it is in my bedroom. And it's just a small mattress that has one of those, you know, desk, no tables, small tables that you can use on your bed. So on that mattress, I use that table and it works perfectly fine. doesn't have to be anything fancy.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="7:37" />

Yeah, it can be the basic of basic.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="7:40" />

Yeah, as long as you have a separation, you know that I go to sleep on my bed. And I work in this other place. So that's, that's all the distinction that you need to make. Aravind, what is your setup? like? What does your desk look like? or do you have a desk or not or not

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="8:01" />

Right now I'm at home I'm not in Hyderabad in my room. So now here I have a small table or table mate vala. Some plastic small table. I just have put my laptop on that and sit on a chair. I moved this a lot yesterday was working from my balcony because there was a cool breeze rain. So I shift this setup to whichever room I feel comfortable if parents are watching TV I move it to another bedroom or sometimes if it is an interesting movie I sit watch with them and work badly. But at Hyderabad I have a separate desk with the monitor and keyboard mouse and stuff.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="8:46" />

Same in either but even have this nice IKEA table and it's empty. Aravind, you have been there. We also use it for having dinner so you know multipurpose table, but I really have a nice comfy chair. So when do you have a nice comfy chair at your parents place to or not.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="9:02" />

Yes I do, but I don't move that chair because it's heavy. If I move if I'm moving around, I use the plastic chair or else if I'm near my computer, I will use that comfy chair. And there is a desktop at home with a comfy chair.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="9:19" />

Okay, but I don't have any comfy chair at my home. So I have this separate mattress very nice cushiony mattress that I work from. And yeah, it's quite nice. But I do hope that I can, you know, get a nice chair. But then you know when I'm not here at my parents place placed and it's not really us. So that's again whether I need to or not, I have to decide.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="9:45" />

Is that is the place near the window that you showed me?

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="9:48" />

Yes, yes, it's near that window. It's quite, you know. Yeah, it's a big window. So you can see everything outside and there are trees and stuff. So quite nice.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="10:00" />

I should put pictures somewhere.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="10:03" />

Yeah, I should I think I will definitely, you know, put my remote works at somewhere on Twitter maybe. But there is also a lot of noise because it's next to a road. So I have these really old noise cancelling headphones and I've converted them using a Bluetooth adapter and it's something I use all the time. What I've noticed is it doesn't cancel all the noise but it cancels about 80% of the noise you know the lows and the highs and it's quite nice. And for others in India, I would really suggest if you're working from home, and you know, it could you know, be the TV next room that's bothering you or anything else. do invest in a good pair of noise cancelling headphones. Aravind has a very good one Aravind would you recommend That to our audience.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="11:01" />

Yeah, definitely though so the one that I have is the Sony's the, remember the model w h thousand MX three or something. And definitely recommended because I have never used noise cancelling before. These headphones surprised me with the amount of the noise that the cancel.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="11:21" />

Awesome. And I think this is a very good tip for remote work to get noise cancelling headphones if you need them if you have a noisy environment, and you want the silence necessary for the book. Yes.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="11:37" />

So moving on. What are your timings? When do you like start your work and finish your work?

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="11:45" />

So I did time blocking for like two weeks. So, no! actually longer, for a month. I saw what I was doing. What were the different patterns at my parents places There are, you know, having lunch together and having tea twice a day together. That's kind of our tradition. That's something we always say together as a family and do. So I know exactly when that happens. And so I know everything what is happening around me and I know at what times they're happening. So those times are blocked out. And if I want to start say, one hour before 11 I know that I just have that one hour because at 11am going to have breakfast so even that is known. I know that after breakfast, you know about noon or something, my mom starts making lunch. So these days when I want to learn a new recipe, I just, you know, listen, I just go to the kitchen and note down things on how she's making something. So that's how my day is. But I have these focus zones I have, you know, focus blocks One and a half are everywhere. So when I feel like working, I know that this is the time that I can work and have divided these blocks based on you know, the day and the different tasks in the day. So some some blocks are in the morning, some are in the noon, and somewhere in the evening. So, whenever I feel like working and the block is on, I get this notification. And by the way I've been I've also moved to Google calendars. I after knowing what my blocks are like, it didn't make sense to stick to notion because it wouldn't give me notifications. So Google Calendar tells me exactly when a focus block is up 15 minutes before that. And yeah, if I'm in the mood, I work, and I've seen that different times of the day, I want to do different kinds of so that's when I do that. Yeah, and I think I don't regret if I miss a focus block. I know that there are more in the day. And I don't have a routine sometimes I stay up all night. Sometimes I wake up very early today I woke up at 4:30am. So yeah, very messed up schedule I would say but I still make the most of it because I know when I have time to work, and if I want to work I will utilise that time. What about you Aravind? What is your day like and how have you organised it for your work.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="14:36" />

So I come from a normal office nine to five job two years ago, so I tend to continue the same trend I guess. I start my work around nine in the morning, but it's not hard and fast that I keep working till five because I tend to take breaks at lunch and continue those breaks. So I will again from 3pm With my, the time where my standup called starts, and then ended at like six or seven. But this really depends if I don't have any other because the flexibility of the schedule is the perk of remote work and I can manage my schedule rate. So if in the morning I have to do something else, I don't start my work at nine. Sometimes I wake up early in the morning at six and work for a few hours and go look at the work that I have, and then continue working from afternoon. So it's very distributed based on the things that I have to do. But a normal day, I start work at nine and like work work till 12 in the noon or something, and then I take a break for lunch, finish my lunch. Because after lunch, you don't you're not that productive. You tend to feel a little sleepy and stuff so I walk around or watch some TV or YouTube and then relax a bit. And then at three again as you are in what I've seen is after lunch is a great time to read. So that's when after 330 or 4pm I should do time for a nap and reading so you can you can try that out. Yeah, but I think I'll feel sleepy for a favour if it is something interesting then I can be.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="16:29" />

Yeah, it's good if you feel sleepy while reading you can just you know, nap for 30 minutes. And but I think you are at the office at the CO working space so you know, no option as such to take a nap. Yeah.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="16:44" />

But at home you can.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="16:46" />

Yes. Okay, so everyone is at who's at home. We can now take naps when we need and these are power nap so you sleep for 30 minutes. Don't sleep more than 30 minutes because you will feel groggy after that. But 30 minutes is the sweet spot before your deep sleep starts. So do take naps whenever you feel tired whenever you feel like okay, you know, I've done too much work and my eyes are strained. So just take a step back, go to bed, take a nap and come back. And like Aravind says, and you know, like what I've discovered is after lunch is the best time to take a siesta. Since pain people. It's a tradition. So all shops shut down, and everyone takes a nap. So yeah, guys consider that.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="17:37" />

So Brittik your shedule looks more to me like it's very distributed, and it goes according to your energy. So if you have the energy or the motivation to do it, you do or else you wait for it to come in, right? Which is a very good thing because

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="17:55" />

it's not actually you know, I really look up to people Who have great routines who know that you know, I wake up at this time I go to the office at this time like your routine I love that it's it's so balanced yet flexible. But for me, I am not that person. I am someone who has always been driven by what I want to do. So, yeah, that really comes across in my routine too and I think everyone should choose or make a routine if they can, which suits their personality and only then will you feel great working remotely.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="18:44" />

Yes.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="18:45" />

So a lot of people who are

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="18:48" />

who are forced into remote work these days because of the current times. There is a lot of bad remote work that people are asking you to do. Not a choice, but the companies want you to do this. One thing you should remember is you cannot recreate your office while you're working remote. You cannot expect

> One thing you should remember is you cannot recreate your office while you're working remote.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="19:10" />

this is for the managers, all the managers listening to the podcast, guys, listen to what Aravind is saying, you can repeat that.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="19:17" />

So you cannot recreate the office environment when your team is working remote,

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="19:23" />

you cannot do that.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="19:24" />

So the main perk of being remote is the flexibility and the employee or your employee doing things that he wants to whenever he wants to because you need to trust your employees. Otherwise you shouldn't have hired them.

> You need to trust your employees. Otherwise you shouldn't have hired them.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="19:46" />

But not all managers get to hire some, you know are given Okay, this is the hired employee, take him in your team and you know who you are. It's a new manager who joins and what The thing what I would like to tell the managers is that think of you know, think of it as a UX designer. And let me tell you what UX designers think of people like in the current scenario. So there are people where are the first question? They are at their homes? Okay, who are they surrounded by family, what is happening in the day kids going to school you know, maybe taking care of parents and you know, running an errand and you know, getting milk or something. So, that is their life. They have a certain life and let them fit their work in times when they are not going to be distracted. When they're not going to feel guilty that okay, you know, I'm at home and I could do this, but I'm not able to because I have work. So let allow them to have flexible workers. But again, I understand you need time for collaboration, you know, everyone working together at the same time. So have three to four hours overlap. And that is more than sufficient to allow your employees to work together, and at the same time, enough time to, you know, step back and do the deep work that is necessary. So, in a day, if you read the four key law, and if you even talk to most developers who don't work at your company, they will tell you the honest truth that in a day, you can work for us very productively. More than that, you can keep working, but it is not so focused, and it doesn't give good results. It creates bugs and you know, things like that. So, talk to people, you know, who are not at your company and understand the true how much work a person can do in a day. So yeah, let's Step back for four hours and do their own work, and let them come back online. Talk to others on slack in the remaining for us.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="22:10" />

Yeah, deep work is a great book I recommend. I think you should read the book, if you are a manager and create that environment for your employees that you don't have to ask them to be always online on slack or teams or Skype or whatever messaging platform you use. They don't have to be 100% available. What happens at our company is that sometimes people go offline, to tell that they're in the deep work state and they don't want any interruptions, which is not stopping from other people to message them. But there is an expectation that you don't get a reply early. They'll reply whenever they see and they are out of the tape works on

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="22:57" />

At the end of the day, what matters is bringing the best in your team. So, think of that. And I would say to all the team members, gift your manager, the book, deep work, you know, during Secret Santa whenever you could just get it, it's really, it will open their eyes if they read it, and it will help you talk better about deep work with them if necessary.

> At the end of the day, what matters is bringing the best in your team.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="23:27" />

Yeah. So if you're an employee, do that. And also talk to your manager about how you want the environment to be and what they should expect from you. Because people listen, when you talk. If you don't talk and expect the office or the boss to do stuff, they won't tell that you have this problem and ask them to improve. The best way is to over communicate. Right if you don't tell the problem, how will they come to know that this is a problem because they don't If they don't know what remote work is, working from home is not remote. You should tell them how the environment should be and be the person who brings that change.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="24:14" />

And at the end of the day, it's the output that matters. If you're given a task, and you finish it on time or before time, and you just work like, you know, say four hours, with complete focus, I think that is good enough. It, I would say it's amazing if you can pull that off. Because Cal Newport and Deep work says four hours is the maximum the amount of work that you can do. So if you have worked four hours a day, feel accomplished, even if it's three and a half feel accomplished and good that you did. And then if your manager says, Hey, I want you online, why didn't you do all this? You know, work, you can just say I've done my part. Here it is, this is what I've done. And, you know, you can have a look. So it also gives you the confidence to stand up to a bad manager, or to a manager who does not understand that you have done the work. We know that some managers are just straight out of business schools, and they have no experience about what it's like to do the work. So they need to know that if they don't know that how, you know, will they understand you? So you need to be very firm and saying, I have done my part. Here it is. So they can't say anything else to you. If they do, you can just say it's done. What more do you expect? Let me know what more you expect. Then you can ask questions over communicate and yeah, basically, get on the same page with your manager.

> And at the end of the day, it's the output that matters.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="25:58" />

Tell them what will happen. If there is good remote work happening, you can allow your employees to work or to make their own schedule and get the most out to them. Because if you allow people to work at their own shedule, you get the most productive results.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="26:23" />

Right, so they can get into the zone by going offline. You don't expect them there is no pressure on them. To be online, always a lot of people. What they do is they open a notepad or something, put something on the spacebar so that your computer is always active, and they're always online, which is not at all useful for a team, right? That is not what you're expecting them to do. You want them to be working then understand the fact that you cannot work a task completely because in an office environment also if you see people don't really work for eight hours, there is one hour for lunch an hour in the evening for games, people use that time in the eight hours to get refilled. Right. So they don't work eight hours completely. So don't expect them to work for eight hours. And you're and they are working remotely as well.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="27:20" />

I'm very sure if you know there are traditional minded managers listening to this, they would be furious and I think they have probably stopped listening to the podcast by now because they have these thoughts about how much work should be done and how long and yeah, the work being done is associated with the amount of time an employee spends on their desk. So which is absurd because you judge by the output and not by you know, sitting on your desk now

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="27:56" />

you're not security guard

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="27:59" />

Yeah.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="28:01" />

managers should measure the output of the team rather than measuring the time that they, their employees spend on the calls are on in front of the computer. How is it useful if your employee spends all day in front of a computer, but watching YouTube, it's not useful, right? So if you stop measuring useless things, they'll start doing productive things.

> Managers should measure the output of the team rather than measuring the time that they, their employees spend on the calls are on in front of the computer.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="28:25" />

And I think what we are doing right now is we have heard so many bad stories from our friends, about their managers that you know, it's like we are telling all the managers don't be like that. So I think that's what we're doing right now. But yeah, it's frustrating to work in a big company and not have a good boss. But again, I think everyone can be better. Everyone can have an open mind. It's all about do they want to, so

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="28:58" />

if they don't want to, please change your company. And that's

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="29:01" />

Yeah, please look for another job if you're not happy at your current company, because there are many good companies out there, and this is a good time to look for them. So this is one more thing that I want to tell to the good managers listening to us right now is that now is the best time to measure before and after you have worked with your team. In an office setup, you know what kind of an output you can expect from them. Now, give them the freedom and see if you get similar output while they are doing work without being strictly monitored, and allowing them about four hours of offline time during their work hours. By offline time. I mean, not always online on slack or not always available on the phone for free. As for half of the day, so try that out. This is very good time to see the difference for yourself.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="30:08" />

Till now we spoke about tips like going to separate place to work wearing different clothes. How does our day look like Brittik's and mine, and then good remote work and bad remote work and a lot of tips for the managers on how to treat your employees. That's the last one that we have, or the ending tip that we have is to how to end your day when you're working remotely because in a lot of cases, you tend to overwork, right you don't know when to stop working because you try to finish that last ticket or the last issue or you want to solve that last bug, but it takes up a lot of time. So have a particular mark to end your day or is You're going to be constantly working, and you wake up and then start working again, which is not at all which is not at all helpful.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="31:11" />

You tend to burn out sooner if you are not ending your day, right.

> You tend to burn out sooner if you are not ending your day, right.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="31:17" />

Okay, so let's talk about how you end your day or when how, what is it like how do you know that today's work is over? especially in times like these when it's, you know, everyone is working from home.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="31:31" />

So, yeah, you can have a schedule and if you are reaching the end of your shedule you cannot you don't take up any more issues to work on or you try to finish that fast if it is done, okay or else how do you do it?

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="31:50" />

Could you give us an example about your day like we know you start your day with Tea and then you have this you know, nine to five kind of normal schedule. And so is that it when it is 5pm or 6pm, you stop work.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="32:07" />

So generally when it is 6pm, I feel a little hungry. So that I might, no it

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="32:15" />

It is a biological trigger that you have hunger and it tells you don't work anymore.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="32:21" />

It's a good thing to have if you are that person. So when the time is 530, or I mean almost six, I don't take up any new work. And if there is something that I am working on currently, which might take a lot of time to get back to the state. The next day, then what I do is I write some comments in the code. So I mostly work with code. So I have comments like to do's and things that I have figured out and to do so that next morning when I see them, I can continue where I left off

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="33:00" />

Okay, but what if you are like deep in work? And you're like, I have to fix this?

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="33:06" />

There is no, I mean, okay, it might be 630 Okay, that's it, but you shouldn't like, keep on working, know when to stop.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="33:18" />

So what I learned is you have a wind down time around 530 ish, you start winding down, you start making some to do lists about where you are in today's work and where you want to start from the next day. So I think that's a great tip to create a wind down to do list of things that you would like to continue the next day. So when you start your next day, you just look at that and you know exactly where to start. And, guys, I'll be honest here that I have been guilty of working continuously if a client Need something tomorrow and it hasn't been the most productive work. I could have worked less and taken more time. Maybe taken another day, but sometimes we don't have that choice. So we end up working a lot longer, say 12 hours or so. But we could have done that work in say eight hours, we then have that pressure and had that flexibility. I think when you are having a job, it is easier in that way. Because your deadlines are not as hard as a freelancers deadline. And you know that no matter what you will get paid at the end of the month. So I think many of us have been guilty to overwork when we have deadlines and compensate for you know, not having done things on time. Which is very common, by the way. And what I have learned is, if you are late, you don't have to beat yourself over it. What you can do is just ask your manager, can I have another day this is taking longer than I expected. So, your manager will give you that day 80 to 90% of the time, they will be okay with it. So do consider asking for more time rather than overworking.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="35:31" />

Okay, guys, so this is what our remote work or our remote life looks like. And we hope you incorporate some of the tips or even one tip that you think is great and which applies well in your life. Do it and share with us how it made you focus better or work better.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="35:56" />

Thank you guys for listening. This was Episode 10 Off learning curve podcast, and it has been like three months, right? Or when or four months.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="36:05" />

We started in December, so four months.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="36:08" />

So about four months and we since we started it, and we went through various phases of, you know, motivation to keep recording, or to not record for a week or skip a week. But we are here on the 10th episode, and I'm very happy that we have come so far 10 doesn't sound like hundred I know. But you know, 1010s is hundreds.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="36:37" />

It's not zero at least.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="36:39" />

It's not zero. It's not five it is 10 episodes, and we hope to keep doing this. We have made some changes and how we are going to approach the podcast let's let's talk about it and let's tell the people how, you know, this is like the, what do you call it after movie or something?

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="37:00" />

Yeah, something like that. So we don't.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="37:05" />

Now we have a specific time to talk about, or plan about the episode, right? We didn't have that earlier. We have a reminder or a calendar event to..

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="37:16" />

No, we had that earlier. But I mean, we had that we want to talk on this day. And then after, you know, a day after it, we will record but we were not strict about it. Now, we are strict in a way where if we skip a day, say if we weren't able to record at 6am this morning, we wouldn't record for the entire week. So that would be like, you know, very sad thing like okay, yeah, it would, we'll feel guilty but at the same time, the good thing about it is we won't have the thought of recording the podcast every day throughout the week. Okay, let's Do it tomorrow. Let's do it tomorrow. And tomorrow never comes like, you know. So that's really helped us to have a strict time as to when we can record. If not, it is okay. We can, you know, record the next week. So it makes us think of it like, you know, this is the only opportunity this week to record. If not, you know, not happening.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="38:22" />

Yeah, so it's Monday 6am or never, which is scary. basically puts us in a situation that if we don't record on Monday 6am then we don't have a new episode for the complete week and it makes us very guilty.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="38:38" />

Yeah, and it's a deadline. So, you know, we have to do it, there is no other way. So it also makes us you know, more conscious about the episode and about how we want to do it, and we don't drag on and the like today I think I have a good feeling. If we do Next week also like this or when, when I think this strategy is something that work. Yeah. Let's see what happens next week.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="39:08" />

So for every 10 episodes, we'll talk about what we did in the podcast or behind this grey thing. Yeah.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="39:16" />

And what what are the other lessons we learned? In the last, you know, 10 episodes.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="39:24" />

The last 10 episodes. For me, there was a lot of improvement in the voice because now I have a mic. Which Spurgeon gave me (thank you). from the first episode, the audio quality of my, my audio quality has improved a lot.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="39:41" />

And also people have said good things about us on Twitter, like very few, but it's like, wow, you every person makes me feel like we are doing something. There are people in the real world people we don't know. People we wouldn't have interacted with other Eyes who have come up to us and said, Hey, this is great what you guys are doing. I look forward to checking the next one. And we're like, Wow, this is great. Thank you. Thank you, everyone.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="40:11" />

Yeah. And I also got messages from people asking, when is your next episode coming? I'm eagerly waiting to listen to it, which is, like very, very good, because that never happened before. And these are the people as you said, we didn't know before. Right? Yeah. And also people giving us constructive feedback and helping us improve the podcast, which is a very good thing, I think.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="40:39" />

Yes, we are definitely open to learning and Aravind and I we both have improved in the last 10 episodes. I think I'm saying you know, a lot less than before that is my filler word. I often use it, but now I'm using it less or when any improvements on your side.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="41:00" />

Yeah, I use you know, as well. There was a lot of filler words like that which are there. But I Constance, I know consciously know that I'm using those filler words and I'm trying to, like get them down. And another filler word that I have is so yeah, I start sentences with so yeah, maybe we maybe people won't be able to listen because we added that things out. But yeah,

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="41:28" />

these days we are not editing we are keeping things and one more thing we do is you know, Arvind says something and they're like, okay, you know saying these things, it's like an interruption for the listener who is saying, Hmm, okay. I understand you know, these things, they are saying it in their mind, and we want to have a direct contact or, you know, talk directly to you the listener, so we avoid saying it to each other. That Okay, I'm listening to you, aren't we Don't say that. We try avoiding it and I think we have reduced it significantly.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="42:06" />

Yeah. And remember there were times that we recorded the episode twice.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="42:11" />

Yes, we were with multiple times

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="42:14" />

when we had to read the last two episodes, I think we did a very good thing because we ended up not spending that much of time on the podcast and also tells that we have improved.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="42:28" />

What I would say is, this is not a bad thing or a good thing. It's more of a healthier thing. If it is happening, and we love what we have said like today, I'm getting a good feeling about this podcast. So we are going to go ahead and not pre record it and just publish it. But on some days, it's like, you know, we both are when the Nivea like no, we don't, we didn't get the healthier feeling. So we recorded like

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="42:58" />

thank you so much. If you are being listened into this from the first episode. Thanks for doing that and if you have not listened to all episodes, please listen to them and give us some feedback so that we improve for the next 10 episodes as well.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="43:17" />

Yeah modded feedback of it's just a retweet share it with your friends.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="43:26" />

Yeah, especially this episode, please ask your managers and bosses to listen to, because we do

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="43:35" />

do make them listen to this episode, we have been critical of managers, because we all know how you know managers can be sometimes. But if you have a good manager that means you have the ideal mentor who will take you up the career ladder into a role that best fits you. So having good manager has its books at the end.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="44:00" />

The day your managers also want you to do your work. That's it right?

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="44:04" />

So yeah, don't want me to succeed because only when you succeed and other people in the team succeed, only then will the manager succeed and it is their job to you know, run a successful ship. So, yes. Okay guys, so wrapping off the 10th episode, and we look forward to recording another time for you guys. It's been a wonderful ride. Still, I remember starting you know that we just spoke at IKEA me and Aravind about we want to start a podcast and from then we have come 10 episodes forward here. So it's been a great journey. Aravin, thank you for doing this. Thank you also,

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="44:49" />

I have to say

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="44:52" />

because the I also remember the time that you asked and I immediately said as yes better without even giving A second thought was we had this thought we had this thought from long but when you asked I was like yeah let's do it

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="45:10" />

You were like okay even Brittik really wants to do it. That's why he's asking so okay.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="45:16" />

Yeah, exactly.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="45:18" />

Yeah, okay, dude. Okay guys, like not dude. Everyone who is listening, dude or dudet. I don't know what else.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="45:29" />

Please also tell us if you like the behind the scenes behind the show banter.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="45:35" />

Yes, please let us know because this is the most natural talk normally when we are recording the podcast, it is a little more to the point so that we don't talk extra things we it's it's not really a conversation, but it is more like sharing our knowledge in the episode but you know behind the scenes, it's more about just talking about Cool. Yep,

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="46:02" />

that's it. I guess we can call it a show.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="46:06" />

Call it a day. Yes,

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="46:08" />

we can call it a day in beginner day, and it's a wonderful morning. Till now, I haven't heard many trucks or buses or the horn so it's quite nice. So haven't Have a wonderful day. Everyone have a wonderful night. If it's night, so, yeah, thank you everyone for listening. We love you. Bye.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="46:31" />

Bye. Have a wonderful time today. Chao.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
