---
epidsode: 11
keywords: 'recording,challenge,fear,song,facing,conquer,put,thinking,big,accountability partners,doable,sound,video,step,goal,helped,stopping,feel,mic,seconds'
---

_Welcome to the learning curve podcast where Brittik and Aravind share with you everything that they've learned so far about technology, startups and remote life._

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="0:20" />

Hello and welcome to the 11th episode of learning curve podcast. In this episode, Brittik and I are going to talk about facing our fears.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="0:29" />

So last week, I called up Aravind and I asked him this question, What are you afraid of Aravind? And that's how the call started. No, hi, hello or anything. I just wanted to ask him what is he afraid of? And that conversation made us make this podcast episode. And it also challenged us and made each other accountability partners where we made sure and we encouraged each other. More like Aravind encouraged me more I think he didn't need so much encouragement. But yeah, we got ahead and facing our fears and conquering them. And we are going to share with you how we did it, and what we came across while doing it, the hurdles and everything so that you can also face your fears.

> What are you afraid of?

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="1:22" />

Yes, I think this is the first time that we have some practical part of the episode that we are recording every time it's just theory or the things that we learned from our experience, but in a way this is also from our experience, but this is like happened just last week of recording the podcasts very precious, like very relevant and fresh. Yeah.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="1:45" />

So Aravind, Why do you think you know, we did this what, what helped us and how do you feel right now after conquering your fears, we'll get to what our fears were how we did it, but for How you feeling to them? And like, you know you did it. You What do you set out to? Do you have done that?

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="2:07" />

Yeah, I feel super good, because I had this fear for a long and it was actually stopping me from doing the things I love. But now after I have done it, I mean I feel very good. What about you?

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="2:22" />

You feel more like the Aravind you are meant to be?

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="2:28" />

Yeah, yeah. Do you feel like the Brittik you're meant to be?

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="2:32" />

I'm getting them and I'm getting there. And I have like lots of expectations from myself. I sound like my own dad. But I am getting there. And this was one of the steps that, you know, pushed me forward. And you know more than the challenge itself. It's more about what we put in during the process to be able to do that. Challenge. So I think that part is something which is very crucial about what process we are putting in. And if you love it, you know, whatever you're doing, then you will definitely feel alive while you're practising for your big day or while you're practising to, you know, overcome your fear.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="3:21" />

So, let us talk about what our fears were and what we did to conquer them. Okay, so would you like to start now

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="3:28" />

why not so for me, it was recording myself singing a song and putting it out there. So there are different levels to the fear. So this was level one, which is the recording a cover song. And even that, within that level, I dissected that fear into a smaller part, which is recording just 14 seconds of a song. So that was what I put out there. Because I wasn't confident about the song I was learning. So I just knew that I put at least 214 seconds of that song, and I put it on Instagram as a story. So that's my first level of the fear. Second would be to, you know, finish an entire song, someone else's song and put it out there. And then it would be to have my own songs out there. Because all my songs are so personal that I don't really want them out there, you know, for people to listen. But from experience, I know that when I had put a song online guy really reached out to me saying, you know, this really helped me during my breakup. And that really gave me a sense of purpose. So I really want to keep doing it. But for some reason, I'm not because it will also tell my personal story to the world, which I don't want to know. But yes, so this is the first step that I took off, recording myself singing and putting it out there. And yeah, we did it.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="4:57" />

Having listened to your songs, I think you should Publish. You just don't realise that they are good, but you should put them out. And also, is there a magic number 14, because by only 14 seconds, why not?

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="5:13" />

Well, because Instagram stories, the length of a story can be maximum of 14 seconds, then it clips your video into two if it is longer. So that's 14 seconds.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="5:28" />

(Laughs)

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="5:30" />

So what about your Aravind? What What is your fear and how was this week facing it?

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="5:38" />

So my fear is the fear of judgement. Okay, I was I become very conscious when it comes to like posting on social media or, like recording myself onto the cam era. I mean, I cannot do it. I just go blank when I

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="5:53" />

like you could not do it.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="5:56" />

Yeah, yeah, I could not do it. So that was My biggest fear, this was like I wanted to tackle this because I wanted to post videos on YouTube. The things that I learned from my development job, I wanted to make videos, but this fear was actually stopping me from doing that things. In the future, I would like to like make courses and sell them that is like a bigger goal. But even but YouTube is like a smaller challenge that I can tackle. So as part of the challenge I took up that I would post five videos on your deal last week, I could successfully do make four videos, which are useful and I feel good about them.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="6:45" />

So Aravind what I understood from your challenge and how you approached it is that you have this bigger goal of having courses online and then you broke that down into one actionable step which is, you know, recording videos for YouTube, they don't have to be very specific, or they don't need to have a proper structure. It's just a one off video. And I think that's what actually got you going. Many times what we do is we overwhelm ourselves with a very big challenge. And then we don't even know where to start. So we end up not doing it at all. So I think this is the takeaway where we should do a smaller version of the bigger goal and one small step at a time. I think that's what we need to do.

> We should do a smaller version of the bigger goal and one small step at a time. I think that's what we need to do.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="7:39" />

Yes. So split your challenge or your goal into a simple, actionable step that takes you towards your goal, and then act upon it.

> So split your challenge or your goal into a simple, actionable step that takes you towards your goal.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="7:49" />

Now, you don't necessarily have to, you know, conquer your fear or anything, just one step closer, and I think it is very doable. So yesterday, I posted a tweet on Twitter. Like self talk, you know, that I had, which was, I'm so overwhelmed. Then I say to myself that hey, can you please do 14 seconds of a video? Okay, done. You know, it's so easy to do some things. But if I had rather asked the question he can you release a whole entire music album online? I would feel like what No, not not happening right now not ready, you know, those would be the answers I would give myself so I think it's very important to take small steps that are doable. So overall, the fear might seem very big, but one small step is doable.

> Just one step closer, and I think it is very doable.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="8:40" />

So was it difficult or was it very easy for you to face this challenge? What did you like? Were there any stops that you had to, like, come across? Or like what was it like a piece of cake?

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="8:56" />

Yes, it was kind of challenging for me. Wasn't a piece of cake at all. When we record videos, we are self conscious of how we look and stuff so that is always there. Then it is learning a song and you know doing that so when I made it 14 seconds, it wasn't so bad because then I didn't have to learn the entire song. I mean, I did learn the entire song, but it wasn't perfect, right? So I didn't have to perfect the entire song could just put one nice part which I like just 14 seconds of it and put it online. So that helped. But on the other hand, after putting the video online, I was feeling a little low like oh, you know, I just put it like who is even going to watch and you know, I don't look good. I think that was more prominent where I knew that I should have trimmed my moustache, but I didn't know hit me with a big moustache and everyone was seeing everyone I know was looking at me. So I did feel self conscious. And

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="9:56" />

but later on when you know a cousin of Mine appreciated like, wow, you know, this is good. Keep doing it more and so then I felt like okay, you know, people are listening and it's, it's good I should not judge or be so harsh to myself, I've noticed that it's often us who you know ourselves, who is the worst enemy for us. So, we should not be so hard on ourselves and rather, we should be okay with how things are in the moment and keep the judging for others because usually when we are judging ourselves, we are thinking what is this other person thinking of my moustache? So, that is something which is happening, right. So you should always pause and think, is this my thought? Or is it someone else's? And then you should think about, you know why you're feeling like that and what can you do to not feel like that, and on the other side, you shouldn't reframe it like What is the upside of doing this? Okay, so I put a video out, I look like shit and Okay, that is one part about what is the other side of it. Okay, so I put a video online, I fulfilled the challenge. It moves me closer to my goal. And it's a good song. I like the sound of it. So, yes, so three checks, three, three things that have done. So there is also this other side, which you don't see, like we just want to bring ourselves down, but rather we focus on Okay, let's focus on the good that we did, then we would feel much better and we would be our own best motivators. So yeah, when that was the challenge I faced and one more thing I would like to add is when I was feeling like telling, like Aravind, I can't do this. It is overwhelming. That's when what I did is I got up and I made the setup. I put a stool on the sofa, put my pad on there, and then I focus On the beanbag where I was going to set and that really helped me in kind of moving a micro step forward because then I sat down and I did a recording just you know to see how the sound was how the frame was, and here that made it more real and brought me a micro step forward to facing my fear. Awesome.

> So you should always pause and think, is this my thought? Or is it someone else's?

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="12:27" />

So the situation with me also was very similar because it wasn't easy at all. I was like shivering The moment I turned on the camera, or I mean, it's not even a big camera. It's just a webcam on my laptop, but still I was blank. I basically wrote the code, which I wanted to demonstrate everything was ready but still I was like, very shivering. So what I did was I took a break went on a walk, and then walk inside the home because like we are staying at home right lockdown on time.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="13:01" />

So, I mean, I went for a walk, I mean, and then I realised that it's just me with the computer and no one else. And I could edit the bad parts if I mess it up, right? I'm not live streaming or anything. And I was very scared in the starting that people would think I'm like, too dumb or it's not that good of a developer No, but you know, you could edit and just show the good parts of you. That was a really...

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="13:30" />

whenever you feel like that called me because I know you're the best developer

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="13:33" />

(laughs) and they were also cases where I recorded the complete video. So there was this one video which I had recorded for like 50 minutes long. And then after that, I took a break before I start editing or editing that and then in that break, I got another idea, which was better than the previous way of solving that problem. And also it will take less time, so That's senarios I had to ditch the thing that I already did, and then re recorded everything. So as you said, it's it's always better if we consider the pros rather than the cons. And the the judge or the people judging or the thoughts that you the judgmental thoughts that you get are mostly not yours. Right. So you, as you, as you like, said, what were the pros if you upload that video or do that music for me that for me, it was I would help a bunch of developers understanding a particular topic, which obviously will weigh more than the cons that I had in my mind if people would judge me or else the other things and stuff that that are not important when you did you

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="14:48" />

get any positive comments.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="14:50" />

I actually got one, one or two comments for like a video of mine the first video, it said nice smile. Given. And that was awesome, really encouraging for me even if it is, like one comment, like, views were very less under 10. But this one comment like matters more than the other things.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="15:17" />

Yeah it weighs a lot,

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="15:19" />

having an accountability partner is like the best thing that you could have when you're facing your fears. Because it really helped me and Brittik in keeping up with the challenge and like, actually doing it,

> I think deadlines are important. Accountability partners, like you mentioned are important.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="15:33" />

and we knew that, at the end of the week, we want to talk about, you know, how we faced off here, that was the goal. So if we hadn't done it, then we wouldn't really have anything to talk for next week's podcast, which we are doing now. So we had a hard deadline. I think deadlines are important. accountability partners, like you mentioned are when are important and yeah, we should have a goal like And the goal should be very clear, what do I want to do when I want to do it? How will I here? And how will I do it? How is the setup and you know how to actually start doing it. Because say recording a live programming session or a song, you need the setup for it, you need to think about am I going to do editing or not and other things, but I would say make it as less complex as you can. Because I was thinking that I would use my condenser microphone to record but then I would also need to merge the audio in the video and that could be extra work for someone who doesn't want to face their fear. It is challenging for that person. All these extra steps are meaningless. So I just put my iPad out there and I recorded with the internal microphone. I knew that it won't be the best sound out there. But again, they would be the fewest hurdle. It's just putting an Balancing rather than, you know, setting up the microphone seeing if the sound is good testing if the levels are okay, and then you know, using an editing software to match the audio and video all of which are doable, but these are extra steps that I don't want to, you know, take over when I'm just recording 14 seconds of a song a cover song, but when I do my own song in the future, I would definitely want these things. So but that's again for another day. Try to eliminate as much as friction as you can because that shouldn't come into the when you are like doing your actionable tasks. Figure the things that Did you do any editing Aravind

> Try to eliminate as much as friction as you can because that shouldn't come into the when you are doing your actionable tasks.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="17:45" />

I actually tried how the audio quality looks like and all because I got this mic but I didn't get my boom arm. Okay, so I can get this very close to me when I am like recording the screen and coding So if I use my keyboard it will sound a lot. Like, it's really bad if you want to hear it. mechanical keyboard. Yeah,

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="18:11" />

I think many people have left the podcast by

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="18:15" />

recording videos don't sound good when you use mechanical keyboards and especially this mic picks up a lot of noise. So all these were troubles but what I could do is I had this Sony headset, which actually recorded good, I mean, my my, my voice was clear and the keyboard noise was also very less. And for fuse videos I directly typed in the MacBooks keyboard. So that was a like a big friction, figuring out how the laptop should be pleasure how where I should be, like where I should say, What mic should I use all these things, but it's good to figure them out in advance and start with something For courses, it is best to have good or perfect audio. But for YouTube videos, it's okay when if nobody else's audio is like terminal and you don't have that much background noise in it. It is doable. Right?

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="19:17" />

Totally. And you eliminated, you know the challenging tasks of setting up a mic and then figuring out how you would stop the keyboard sound from coming in, though the challenging things to do. And, you know, when we have just one mic, we know that it can't cancel out stuff. And then we will have to go into the software and minimise sound and stuff. So I think it's all about making things simpler like you did like I did, and that makes it easy for us to conquer challenge. Aravind what would you suggest our listeners to do? How should they face their fears? What are your recommendations for them?

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="19:57" />

I think the first step is you introspection, like, look what you're doing in your daily life and introspect what you actually want to do. And see if something is stopping you from doing this stuff. The first step is identifying what your fear is. And then after that work, okay, you should do is like, plan out some actionable steps to conquer that fear. And then do it.

> I think the first step is introspection.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="20:25" />

Yeah, as simple as that. And also guys, remember to make it as simple as possible, break down your fears into smaller, smaller things that is doable. And don't be so harsh on yourself. Be motivating, be self motivating, and see the bright side of things. And there will always be things, you know, downsides but just think, is that your thought? Or is that someone else's thought? So, we will be wrapping off with that. But we would like to challenge you to understand what it is you want to do. And then you know, Comment on the podcast tweet and just share with us what is it that you want to do? And who is your accountability partner in this challenge? And

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="21:12" />

we can we could be accountability partners.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="21:16" />

Yes. Yes, definitely. So just share these things and get started on overcoming your fear, at least a small part of if you're you can do this. We did it. And it was challenging, but it is possible. If you're giving putting in the time and just facing a small version of your fear.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="21:39" />

What is next for you? Is this challenge still going on or it can be stopped?

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="21:45" />

No, right now, I'm not thinking of the next step. It's all about working on my own music. So I'm doing that. But yeah, I haven't still figured out the next part of my challenge. I'll take some time doing it. But we'll probably be doing some of my original songs. And I have to think how I can do it in a small way. Like I know the, you know, song is usually good, the arrangement is good, but I'm not so good at mixing vocals show. So should I collaborate with someone on that or just teach myself how to do it? So these are some thoughts, but I am actively thinking about what is next for me.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="22:26" />

What about you or when What's next?

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="22:28" />

So what I'm thinking is to like make a course but not as a course course like YouTube videos, but like the quality should be as a course. So I have this thing in mind where I understand the specific library very well right now because I have been using it for a year. So I like to make requests on it. Not failed when I the videos I made are on tailwind. So now the curse I'm thinking is with downshift which is a UI library built on top of react which helps you build this type of auto select and the drop down components for the UI. So I'm planning to do a course on it. I plan five to six videos, which are like, very small, three to four minutes, I guess. So that is the plan. I have to see how it goes. And if I could like, actually record a course and put it on YouTube or not, because no one will pay for your course. Because when you like when they don't know how you teach it.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="23:31" />

I think that's the way initially you should give away for free and then eventually, you'll have a following. Then I think 10% usually converts. So if you have a free fanbase of say, 1000 people, then it is usually 100 people who might convert or who might purchase your course. Yeah. So overall, what I see is this challenge actually got us a step forward in thinking Big. We are thinking big now. And it's all because of the small things that we are conquering.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="24:06" />

Yes. So if you're listening to this all the best for your challenge, please let us know in the I mean in the tweet replies, but what challenge you're taking and how old you are the steps that you are taking to conquer your challenge. So if it is something online, like what we did posting on social media or YouTube, please add links so that we can also have a look and encourage you on your tasks. Thank you so much for listening. Have a good time of the day.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Brittik" time="24:36" />

Yeah, have a wonderful day or night. Bye Bye, guys.

<TranscriptSpeaker name="Aravind Balla" time="24:39" />

Bye, guys.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
